---
substitutions:
  Wall: '`Docker-compose.yml not found`'
---

# Troubleshooting

**1. Test Case takes forever to run when using splunk-type=external**

 - Check all the Splunk instance information provided in arguments are present and correct.
 - `--splunk-host`, `--splunk-port`, `--splunk-user` and `--splunk-password` are required. If not provided, default values are considered which may not work for every setup.
 - Make sure the Splunk instance is up and running, also the Splunk server's management port should be accessible to the test machine.

**2. Getting No such file or directory while test collection.**

 - Check if the path provided in `--splunk-app` exists.

**3. No tests generated for any fields.**

 - Make sure the directory mentioned in `--splunk-app` has a format of Splunk app and has files like all the required configuration files in the default directory.

**4. Getting Couldn't find a version that satisfies the requirement when installing pytest-splunk-addon using pip.**

 - Use `pip3 install pytest-splunk-addon` and make sure you are using python 3.9

**5. While executing test cases on Docker, all the test cases abort with the following setup failure:**

 - Docker-compose.yml not found.

    - Provide a docker-compose.yml in the root of the current working directory.

 - Couldn't connect to Docker daemon.

    - Need to restart docker daemon.

 - Service 'splunk' failed to build.

    - Check your internet connection
    - Try `docker pull splunk/splunk` once this is done test cases can be executed.

**6. Only no-dash-no-empty test cases are passing**

 - If splunk-type is docker, make sure you have add-on getting installed on the Docker OR if external, install the add-on on the Splunk instance.
 - Make sure to configure the inputs to collect data or check if sufficient data required for testing is generated by the pytest-splunk-addon.
